docs/dev-doc-src/API.rst, before:

.. OfflineImap API documentation

.. currentmodule:: offlineimap

Welcome to :mod:`offlineimaps`'s documentation
==============================================

Within :mod:`offlineimap`, the classes :class:`OfflineImap` provides the high-level functionality. The rest of the classes should usually not needed to be touched by the user. Email repositories are represented by a :class:`offlineimap.repository.Base.BaseRepository` or derivatives (see :mod:`offlineimap.repository` for details). A folder within a repository is represented by a :class:`offlineimap.folder.Base.BaseFolder` or any derivative from :mod:`offlineimap.folder`.

This page contains the main API overview of OfflineImap |release|. 

OfflineImap can be imported as::

 from offlineimap import OfflineImap

:mod:`offlineimap` -- The OfflineImap module
=============================================
 
.. module:: offlineimap

.. autoclass:: offlineimap.OfflineImap(cmdline_opts = None)


   .. automethod:: run

   .. automethod:: parse_cmd_options

..  .. autoattribute:: ui

      :todo: Document

:class:`offlineimap.account`
============================

An :class:`accounts.Account` connects two email repositories that are to be synced. It comes in two flavors, normal and syncable.

.. autoclass:: offlineimap.accounts.Account

.. autoclass:: offlineimap.accounts.SyncableAccount
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

   .. autodata:: ui

      Contains the current :mod:`offlineimap.ui`, and can be used for logging etc.

:exc:`OfflineImapError` -- A Notmuch execution error
--------------------------------------------------------

.. autoexception:: offlineimap.error.OfflineImapError
   :members:

   This execption inherits directly from :exc:`Exception` and is raised
   on errors during the offlineimap execution. It has an attribute
   `severity` that denotes the severity level of the error.

Commit message:

We have a (read-only) commit mailing list
Sebastian Spaeth wrote on Thu, Jan 19, 2012 at 10:28:19 +0100:
> Forgot to Cc the list...
>
> On Wed, 18 Jan 2012 08:17:44 +0200, Daniel Shahaf wrote:
> > Sebastian Spaeth wrote on Wed, Jan 18, 2012 at 01:02:22 +0100:
> >> http://docs.offlineimap.org
> >
> > I've subscribed.  And if you tell me where the sources for docs.o.o are,
> > I'll send a patch for them, too. :-)
>
> They are autogenerated from docs/dev-docs-src, and
> docs/[INSTALL|MANUAL|FAQ].rst respectively. Patches are welcome...
>
> Sebastian

From 84fcb9fa5de9eb2f95d588a7403d9c6d13f0c7f0 Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
From: Daniel Shahaf <d.s@daniel.shahaf.name>
Date: Thu, 19 Jan 2012 11:53:13 +0200
Subject: [PATCH] Document the commits@ list

Mention the commits@ list in SubmittingPatches.rst.

Mention SubmittingPatches.rst in the API part of the documentation.

Signed-off-by: Daniel Shahaf <d.s@daniel.shahaf.name>

docs/dev-doc-src/API.rst, after:

.. OfflineImap API documentation

.. currentmodule:: offlineimap

Welcome to :mod:`offlineimaps`'s documentation
==============================================

Within :mod:`offlineimap`, the classes :class:`OfflineImap` provides the high-level functionality. The rest of the classes should usually not needed to be touched by the user. Email repositories are represented by a :class:`offlineimap.repository.Base.BaseRepository` or derivatives (see :mod:`offlineimap.repository` for details). A folder within a repository is represented by a :class:`offlineimap.folder.Base.BaseFolder` or any derivative from :mod:`offlineimap.folder`.

This page contains the main API overview of OfflineImap |release|. 

OfflineImap can be imported as::

 from offlineimap import OfflineImap

The file ``SubmittingPatches.rst`` in the source distribution documents a
number of resources and conventions you may find useful.  It will eventually
be merged into the main documentation.
.. TODO: merge SubmittingPatches.rst to the main documentation

:mod:`offlineimap` -- The OfflineImap module
=============================================
 
.. module:: offlineimap

.. autoclass:: offlineimap.OfflineImap(cmdline_opts = None)


   .. automethod:: run

   .. automethod:: parse_cmd_options

..  .. autoattribute:: ui

      :todo: Document

:class:`offlineimap.account`
============================

An :class:`accounts.Account` connects two email repositories that are to be synced. It comes in two flavors, normal and syncable.

.. autoclass:: offlineimap.accounts.Account

.. autoclass:: offlineimap.accounts.SyncableAccount
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

   .. autodata:: ui

      Contains the current :mod:`offlineimap.ui`, and can be used for logging etc.

:exc:`OfflineImapError` -- A Notmuch execution error
--------------------------------------------------------

.. autoexception:: offlineimap.error.OfflineImapError
   :members:

   This execption inherits directly from :exc:`Exception` and is raised
   on errors during the offlineimap execution. It has an attribute
   `severity` that denotes the severity level of the error.
